---
title: "How Do We Focus"
date: 2020-05-22T17:30:00-05:00
draft: false
zettel: true
tags:
  - Books
  - Productivity
  - Focus
id: 
  - 1
---
## Key Takeaways
  * The increase in automation has lead to an increase in the phenomenon of cognitive tunneling where we latch onto the easiest, and not always best, option when we need to focus immediately.
  * Develop reactive thinking and mental models to handle situations and focus. Create habits and procedures regarding what may happen and then ways to overcome those challenges. 

## Notes
While the increase in automation has lead to huge increases in productivity, it has also affected our ability to focus. We have trouble switching our minds between automaticity and focusing. This phenomenon is referred to as cognitive tunneling, which is where we are in a relaxed state of passive automation and then we abruptly need to focus on something. When this happens we usually do what is right in front of us which may or may not be the best option. This can be something such as using cruise control and then needing to react to a car or animal that abruptly gets in front of you. The best option may be to slow down but instead you jerk the steering wheel to the side and end up making the situation worse. The example outlined in the book is the crash of [Air France Flight 447](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_France_Flight_447).
  
What we want to be able to do in situations that require focus is use reactive thinking. Instead of having to figure out what to do in the moment, we have built up habits and procedures that allow us to react to certain situations. This is developed through the use of mental models. A mental model is where a person goes over what is going to happen in their head over and over again. It gives you a baseline for how you expect something to happen. For example, in the book, a nurse developed a mental model of what a healthy newborn should look like. This allowed her to notice things about a sick child that the assigned nurse could not see and ended up saving the baby's life. 
  
If you want to notice the details in your work, develop mental models of what your work should be like. Script everything out in your head beforehand so you know if something is off.

## Reference
  * Chapter 3 of [Smarter Faster Better by Charles Duhigg](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25733966-smarter-faster-better)
