---
title: "Azure Webinar"
date: 2020-06-09T18:30:03-05:00
tags:
  - Azure
categories:
  - Cloud
  - Microsoft
---
## Azure Active Directory

Azure Active directory is used to authenticate over the Internet and can be used to login to cloud services. It understands OAuth, SAML, OID, and WD-Fed.

AD Connect can be used to sync users, groups, password hashes, and SIDs between on-premise AD and Azure AD.
  
## Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) provides fine grain access control for Azure. It gives you the ability to set either pre-defined roles or create custom roles. These roles can be resource specific and grant access to AD groups, users, and services. RBAC also provides granular scopes for subscription-wide, resource groups, or individual resources.

## Subscription Hierarchy

Enterprise enrollment -> Department -> Accounts -> Subscriptions

## Resource Groups

Resource groups are containers that house similar or different types of resources. They can span multiple regions.

They are lifecycle base so When a resource group is deleted, all the resources within that group are deleted as well.

Resources can only be a member of one resource group
  
## Networking

Azure Virtual Networks (VNets) essentially act as another data center when connecting VNets to your own premise network.

By default, Azure VNets are not exposed to the Internet. When they are exposed to the Internet you get:

* Public IP addresses
* DDos Protection
* ACLs
* Load Balancing
* DNS Services
* Traffic management

When using VNets, you can use either public or private IP addressing. They are reachable only from within the VNet or other connected networks.

Network security provided to VNets by NSGs, Firewall, and NVAs
  
**Network Security Groups (NSG)** are used for network segmentation and layer 3 and layer 4 filtering. These groups can be associated with either a VM NIC or a subnet and ease the management of firewall rules.

**User-Defined Routes (UDR)** allow for custom routing through either overriding the default routes or adding additional routes. They can be used to route traffic to the Internet, virtual appliances, or VPN gateways.

**Express Route** is a circuit based network directly onto the Microsoft backbone. This keeps the traffic completely off the public Internet. These connections are given through select service providers.

The following best practices are recommended when using and setting up VNets:

* Don't use overlapping address spaces
* Create new AD Site(s) for new subnets
* Setup a DC/DNS
* Establish management tool VMs
* Use existing VM naming conventions
* Reserve IPs for everything initially
* Consider relocating ADFS to Azure
